---
layout: post
title: Week 14 - My group work
---

Individually, I think was able to make some good contributions throughout the past few weeks.<!--more--> As a user of Keycloak, I could see enhancements within the software that non-users would have no idea about, because their experience is limited to picking up work on the issues page. So the majority of my time was spent on features for custom themes. Rendering for descriptions in the drop down menus, automatic translation for default descriptions, fixing a bug where custom themes would have their descriptions overridden by their base themes, modifying Keycloak's API to render custom theme descriptions, enabling multiple custom themes to be rendered in the drop down menu and handled by the software, as well as rendering custom theme names with special characters instead of the normalized path names are all pieces I have worked on. And I'm happy with that. These contributions have shown me that I can make an impact on the experiences many people have, and I can continue to do so in the future.

As a group, our contributions have had varied, positive impacts. We made changes that make the platform more accessible. We enhanced the software to render it more complete and polished. We performed feature implementation research for areas that haven't yet been explored, which can act as guides for future development. A bug relating to building the tool was reported and fixed as well, improving the quality of life for developers and users who build from source. We plan to have ownership of the code we implemented in the future, taking responsibility where appropriate. We also plan to tie up any lose ends, even once the course is through.