---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - A general update
---

## Finding preferred projects

To prepare for choosing the projects we would soon choose to contribute to for the rest of the semester, I completed new evaluations and followed different Getting Started processes.<!--more-->

Although I had already gone through this process earlier, I completed [an evaluation for Keycloak](https://github.com/ossd-s26/project-evaluation/blob/main/keycloak.md) - so that it's info was available to others in the class organization. Keycloak is a project that I would like to contribute to for this class.

Next, in class, a group of students and I evaluated Electron. We used Gemini's Deep Research model and compared our evaluation with its. It is good at finding URLs, but falls short in other areas such as judging friendly-ness to new contributors and those sorts of things. It's documentation is straight forward, but I could not complete the build process. Around **an hour** after running the build command in my terminal, a brew error is thrown and I could not solve it. Electron is not a project I would be willing to contribute to for this class.

Next, I followed the evaluation and build for Jellyfin. This was easy and took around 10 minutes. Afterwards, I used the service to stream some of my music. Jellyfin is a project that I would be willing to contribute to for this class.

I would also be interested in contributing to GIMP.

## Past and present contributions

So far I have made contributions to the class GitHub repository, Keycloak, and the [highlight](https://github.com/ossd-s26/highlight) project made by Aisha Roslan, Yuxuan Qin and Ruilin Guo. 

For the class GitHub repository, I reported an issue regarding .DS_Store being tracked. I am also working to get a typo fix merged into the reporitory. The challenges with this contribution are mostly in relation to different issue reporting and fixing practices. 

As for Keycloak, I added a way to render descriptions of themes for the application, that way users know what they are selecting. So far, this was my most difficult contribution. I had to make different revisions to code across multiple files, making changes that were not only visual. Due to the difficulty of the changes, this was the most rewarding to complete. I plan on adding a field to the theme creation menu so that users can create descriptions for their own themes.

Regarding highlight, I implemented a button and logic allowing users to copy MLA citations of their highlighted text to their clip board. This was relatively straight-foward, and the team was responsive and helpful.